The Joe Rogan experience.
I have this thought about how much culture has shifted through the internet and
how much culture will shift again in even more astronomical way once we can read
minds. And I don't think we're far away from that.
I think we're a few decades away from some technology that allows people
to establish intent and to see thoughts.
And I think they're very,
there's some sort of theoretical work they're doing on this right now.
And there's, there's different models that they're trying to achieve.
I think that's going to eliminate a lot of the of communication
and I think it's going to happen really quickly.
Just like Google sort of eliminates a lot of the of people telling stories about
something that someone goes, what, what happened? Wait a minute, what year?
And they'd go good. That didn't happen.
And they can find out like almost instantaneously.
I think we're going to be able to figure that out with people.
I think there's going to be a way where you can,
where we can see intent and we can read minds.
I don't think we're far away from that. I mean,
I know this neural link thing with Elon Musk is very,
Elan's very hush hush about this is different sort of electronic
brain interfaces that they're trying to, uh, experiment with.
I wouldn't wouldn't you worry be that if we read,
we're able to read someone's thoughts, intentions,
what we would in fact discover is even more confusing than what we know
now. In other words,
maybe what's inside my head right now are 35 different thoughts and
intentions warring it with each other murders.
Scenarios. Yes. Mercenary.
Then Malcolm just sort of keeps everything on the surface.
Super normal.
I think it's totally true. Think about it.
Most of us there's any number of things. Think about the,
the list of the list of possible things that could come out of my mouth at this
very moment is infinite, right? It is infinite.
There are at this very moment.
God knows how many scenarios swirling around my head about what should I say
next? Right. And why is my intention to try and make you laugh,
to impress you, to you off, to disagree with you, to agree with you? I mean,
we can go on and on and on and on all those are in play.
So you really want to look inside my head and get,
you're not going to get clarity. It's going to be a mess.
Or we're going to realize we're all a mess or make us feel a little bit better,
like, oh, everybody's out of their mind, but.
Would you want that? Yes.
You would. Yes. I'm endlessly curious about,
I know my mind is such a mess and there's so much chaos going on in there.
I want to know what's going on in other people's.
I want to know how up am I or am I normal? Is it.
Here's my fear. I have many fears about this kind of thing,
but my fear would be as follows that, um,
I cannot count the number of times when I have had reactions to things that
people have said in a moment that turn out to be wrong deeply and badly
wrong.
And one of the things that I have learned as an adult is to deeply distrust
those kinds of reactions and to wait. And very often what'll happen. In my case.
Sometimes the waiting takes a long time.
I'm the kind of person who sometimes a month will pass.
And I will think back on a situation and I'll think, oh my God,
I totally misunderstood that this person who I thought was a is actually
someone, you know,
a lovely person who I should give a second chance to or whatever that comment
that someone made that I thought was stupid is in fact,
extremely thoughtful and insightful. This will happen weeks, months later,
whatever,
if you were able to read my mind in a moment,
you would judge me for my mistake and not give me an easy way to correct it.
And it was, you attract me in like, what if this,
what if I've had a reaction to something you said in this conversation,
in which I said, Jesus, I can't believe that that's dumb.
And then I'm driving back to LA tonight. And I think, oh actually, oh,
that's really interesting and thought about at the time,
I don't want you to short circuit my learning process about you.
I want, I want to give me the privacy of my,
my six hours of thinking about what you said and allow me
give me that kind of time to come to a reasoned and insightful conclusion about
how I feel.
Interesting.
But we're talking then about only one person having the technology,
because if you both have the technology, then there wouldn't be any issue.
You wouldn't be confusion as to why someone was saying something you'd,
you've a much clearer path to understanding their thought process and their
intent behind it. Really. I mean,
if one person has it right then yeah, I get it. Yeah. If I can read your mind,
oh, I said something in Malcolm thinks I'm a retard. Like, you know,
there's that, but there's another,
there's another possibility that both people have it.
And this is also one of the things that would be fascinating about this is one
of, one of the things about forbidden words is forbidden words
carry with them intent. They have automatic intent, right?
But you can say the exact same word and have different
intent behind it. If we could understand clearly what your intent is,
then taboo words would automatically become meaningless.
That wouldn't mean it's not about sound you make,
it's not about forbidden sounds what it's about as thoughts and what you're
trying to convey. And what's happening to you as a human being.
Who are you like, what, what, what is your process for the way you communicate?
What is your process for the way you're trying to, uh,
develop these thoughts in your mind and express them to people? Well, well,
part of the problem with that is language, right?
And part of the problem with making certain aspects of our language forbidden is
you limit people's ability to colorfully,
communicate and express themselves in certain ways.
I think that alone just eliminating that alone,
eliminated and confusion, and also highlighting, you know,
you could highlight real problems with people's thoughts and the way people
communicate, but also eliminate many problems. So you'd say, well,
he doesn't mean that like you could see what he means.
Like this is what this is where his mind is. You could see,
you could literally see the thoughts. Yeah.
Yeah. I guess I would also, let me, let me get,
let me throw another complicating factor.
It still leaves the question of cultural contexts. So of course,
one of the things I got really interested when I was writing my book was how our
kind of cultural frames of reference, um, profoundly, um,
complicate our attempts to understand other people.
And so in your scenario where I have some kind of window into your thinking and
intention, I still need to know in order to make sense of you.
I still need to have a very clear idea of the,
the cultural kind of rules of the road that you're using.
And they're likely to be different from mine. Sure. Particularly if, you know,
I mean, I'm a Canadian, you're not. Um,
but imagine if the difference between us was more profound, if I was, you know,
then you you're still like, like I was, there's a really cool thing. I've,
I've been obsessed with, um, uh, with memory, I'm doing these things on memory,
in my, in revisions history, this coming season.
And I was reading about this really fascinating experiment, which has done with,
uh, Korean and American, um, college students,
adults essentially. And what I do is I give you three circles,
B paper circles, and one is past one is present. One is future.
And I say, those are three concepts represent those three concepts,
um, uh, with these three circles.
So the American kid has passed here,
present in the middle future over on the right, right.
Three independent circles.
The Korean kid puts all piles, all three circles on top of each other.
Now what does that mean? I don't know what that means.
It means something interesting, right? It means that they don't,
they're not separating these three modes the way that we are,
they're certainly coming at experience with a very different set of assumptions.
So maybe so I think of the civil war is a
long time ago, but if I'm Korean,
maybe the civil war is as present in my kind of consciousness as
something that happened last week. Is that maybe that's what that means.
I'm not exactly sure. I'm sort of guessing because I don't know the,
I haven't fully investigated, but the point is there are,
I've just given you one random example. There are re way,
incredibly different rules at different cultures use to organize experience.
So if I'm looking at you and reading your thoughts,
I have to know those rules because those rules are sorting out how people,
so this is only, this is not, I'm not, I'm not dissing this notion of that.
You're talking about. I'm saying that it needs to have another layer as well,
a cultural level, a cultural layer,
which kind of alerts me to how you're organizing experience certainly makes
sense.